# GUI: Collecting inputs

If you want to collect an input from a GUI control, you need to have a variable to store the result in. Usually this you want to do this with a class field .

1. Go back the the **RayTest** script and add a public field at the top:<pre>public float Offset = .5f;</pre>
2. Down in the update method, change<pre>Vector3 targetpos = new Vector3 (hit.point.x, .5f, hit.point.z);</pre> to <pre>Vector3 targetpos = new Vector3 (hit.point.x, Offset, hit.point.z);</pre> This should let the Offset field control the height of the cube above the mouse location.
1. Now return to the **MouseMoveGUI** script in MonoDevelop
2. Add a field at the top: <pre>float Offset = .5f;</pre>Note that this is **not** a public field, so it doesn't show up in the Inspector.
3. In the **OnGUI()** method, add two new lines<pre>Rect slider = new Rect(10, Screen.height - 30, 100, 100);
Offset = GUI.HorizontalSlider(slider, Offset, -1, 2);
</pre>
4. Save and run. This should draw a slider at the lower left hand corner. This doesn't do anything yet, we just want to make sure it works.
5. You can adjust the position of your slider if you want by changing the first two values in <pre>
slider = new Rect(10, Screen.height - 30, 100, 100);</pre>
6. Now let's hook up the control.  In the MouseMoveGUI Script, add a new field:<pre>public RayTest Target;</pre>
This should let you hook up the controlling script on the cube.
7. In the **Update()** method, add this:
<pre>Target.Offset = Offset;</pre>
This should set the offset value in the Raytest script to the value in your slider;
8. Run the game and play with the slider values to see the effect.

This example shows two common tricks:

* Using a field to *both* set the value of a GUI element and also to hold a new value.
* Using a GUI element to put values into a field in the another object.  We could have tried to control the object directly from the GUI script, but that's a bad idea - the multiple-updates-per-frame could be very costly.

[back](4-20.md) [next](4-22.md)

