# GUILayout (cont'd)

1. Save the file and return to Unity. Make sure you don't have any errors.
2. Add the **ColorChanger** script to your sphere.
3. Add a few Colors to the list. First edit the **Size** field and then add colors with the color picker. 
4. **IMPORTANT!** Make sure the colors all have an alpha value of 255.  This will show up as a small white bar under the main color swatch.  Lower alpha values will show up as gray or black bars.  * If the alpha is too low the buttons will not be visible!*
5. Run the game. You should see a row of colored buttons at the bottom of the screen.  They won't do anything just yet, we just want to make sure the layout is correct.
6. Go back to the **ColorChanger**script in MonoDevelop.
7. In the **Update()** method, add this
<pre>
if (UpdateColor.a > 0)
    {
    renderer.material.color = UpdateColor; 
    UpdateColor = new Color(0,0,0,0);
    }
</pre>
The trick here is that we set the alpha to 0 every update, knowing that all of our colors have alphas larger than zero. This way we only run the update if a button was changed last frame.
8.  Return to Unity. Run and test.
9. For one last refinement, we can make the buttons bigger and easier to see.  
10. The height of the buttons can be set manually.  Return to MonoDevelop and change <pre>
if (GUILayout.Button(c.ToString()))</pre>
to  <pre>
if (GUILayout.Button(c.ToString(), GUILayout.Height(50))</pre> This tells the buttons to be 50 pixels high. The horizontal layout is still controlled by the **Horizontal** block.


[back](4-22.md) [next](4-24.md)