#Smoothing mouse moves

If you need to use a mouse input like a joystick, it's pretty simple to average out the movements to get rid of the jitter. This does make the input less responsive, too, so it might not work for everything.  

This technique requires an extra programming technique too: the use of a Generic list 

1. Go back to your script.
2. Up at the top, add this <pre>
using System.Collections.Generic;
</pre>
**using** tells C# to include additional functions and classes. In this case **System.Collections.Generic** includes some specialized classes for handling collections, and we need the **Queue** class to collect mouse samples. 
3. Add a private field <pre>private Queue < float > Samples;</pre> The notation in angle brackets tells the queue to use floating point numbers.
4. In the **Start** method we need to make a Queue object to put into the variable we just made:<pre>Samples = new Queue< float > (30);
Samples.Add(0f);</pre> We put a single zero in there so we never have an empty list.
5. Now down in the **Update** method we're going to add a way to track those mouse moves:<pre>Samples.Add(Input.GetAxis("Vertical");
float average = 0;
foreach (float f in Samples)
    {
    average += f;
    }
transform.position = Vector3.Forward * (average / Samples.Length);</pre>
We grab all of the numbers in the Queue, add them up, and divide by the number of items to get an average mouse move over the last 30 updates (we know it's 30 because we made the Queue a size of 30);

This is a good trick for any situation where you want to avoid jerky inputs - you could do the same thing to smooth out key inputs or to make a joystick react more sluggishly.

## Important Note
Set the input manager's type back to **Key or Mouse Button**.  If you want to use mouse input this way in a game you want to use <pre>Input.GetAxis("MouseX")</pre> or <pre>Input.GetAxis("MouseY")</pre>

[back](4-7.md) [next](4-9.md)